Variables:

variables are used to hold any type of information, that can be manipulated or used by computer program.
Variable name should be accurately assigned so that anybody can interpret it easily. To assign value to 
the variable, = sign is used.In Javascript, var keyword is used to declare variable.
Example: var name = "Kirati Bhuva"


Objects:
An object is an non-premitive kind of data type. Object can hold multiple values like it's properties and methods. 
Object is used to store data in a structured way, and can represent real world objects, like a cat,car,rectangle.
The name property can be any string, including an empty string and values can be any value like string, number, and null, 
but it cannot be undefined. The object's properties can be defined even after you start using the object.
Example:var Object Name = property1:value, property2:value, property3:value};

Functions:
A function can be a piece of code which can be exicuted when it is called or referenced.It can also be used to do repetative tasks.
It can have multiple parameters. It can also return one value. A function without any name can also be define. It is called anonymous 
function.It must be assigned to a variable.
Example: function functionName() {
  			//code to be executed
		  }
Everytime the function is called, all of the code will be executed.

Events:
JavaScript Event system, is one of the building block of an interactive web page.
An event is something that happens with or on web page like a mouse click, a keystroke, a web page loading etc.
JavaScript has some predefined events that can occur. 
Everytime the event occurs, Event handler contains the code to be executed.


Arrays:
The array is special type of variable which can store many values within it.
Each value of that variable is associated with index starting from 0.
Example : var arrayName = [element0, element1,....,elementn];
It can store multiple values with different datatypes.

Inheritance:
Inheritance can be achived using objectin JavaScript.
Each object has a property taht holds link to another object which is called its prototype

Conditions:
Conditions are used to execute different actions based on different conditions.
In JavaScript, there are if-else conditional statements to control the program flow.
It includes the following forms:
	1) if statement
	2) if..else statement
	3) if..else if..else statement
If there are large number of else if condition, an alternative is to use switch statement.
To check the conditions, conditional operators are used like "==","<",">" which returns boolean value.


Regular Expressions:
Regular Expressions are used to find certain words or patterns inside the string.
There are two ways to implement regular expression:
1) Using literal syntax like var regularExpression = /pattern/
2) Using RegExp() constructor, to dynamically construct the regular expession. Example : var RegularExpression  =  new RegExp("pattern");
var myRE = /regexp/;  


Strict Mode:
ECMAScript 5 introduced strict mode to JavaScript. 
The intent is to allow developers to opt-in to a “better” version of JavaScript, where some of the most common  errors are handled differently. 
For example with strict mode, the following errors can be prevented.
Prevents accidental globals,
writing to a read-only property,
No duplicates.
"use strict;" is used to declare strict mode.
 
Errors:
Javascript is a loosely typed language, Sometime runtime errors can occur.
It provides error handling mechanism to catch thode errors using try-catch-finally block.
Try block wrap code that may throw error at runtime
Catch block provides the code to be executed when error occur in try block.
Finally block will always occurs irrespective of any error occurs or not.
Throw is used to raise custom error.

Type Conversions:
In JavaScript, data types are used to declare type of data.Sometime JavaScript will convert many values automatically.
But it is best practice to manually convert values between types in oder to achieve expected output.
String(), Number(), Boolean(), and Object() functions can be used to convert data from one type to another.


JSON:
JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation.It is used for lightweight data exchange between different systems.
IT is very simple and compact.




HTML:
Local Storage:
Local storage items are stored in key-value pairs, so for every item that we wish to store on the client, 
Key is needed—this key should be directly related to the data that it is stored alongside.
It comes with 2 versions:
1) Session Storage
2) Local Storage

Media()
HTML5 standards supports MP4, Ogg, WebM videos and MP3, WAV and Ogg audio.
A video can be added to a page using the <video> element of HTML5. <source> element allows you to specify multiple formats of the video from which the browser can choose the one which is supported. 
An audio can be added to a page using the <audio> element of HTML5. <source> and other elements for audio work the same way as they work for <video>.
If the browser does not support the audio/video, the text between the <audio></audio> or <video></video> will be displayed.

Geolocation:
It represents an object able to obtain the position of the device.It gives web content access to the location 
of the device.
Geolocation.getCurrentPosition determines the device's current location and gives back a position object with the data.


HTML Input:
It specifies the input area where user can add data.
Type attribute specifies the typwof data entered in the area.
If type = "button" , it will create button.Similarly, it will create radio buttons and checkboxes on
type = "radio" and type = "checkbox" respectively.
Input type = “email” is for entering email ID, which validates that the entered input has the character ‘@’ within it, 
otherwise it shows a label describing the error in the email ID. 






